User Archetypes
===============

It might be useful for us to have notions of archetypal users of Hypothes.is.
These serve as a shorthand to talk about the needs of different kinds of user,
and help us to write focused user stories.

Please help us to complete and refine these descriptions.


Researcher
----------

This archetype is characterized by personal objectives.  The interactions are
limited to themselves, and are dominated by organizational and note-taking
tasks.

The researcher takes private field notes via personal, “Only Me” visible
annotations on the web, and also to use tags to help organize those annotations
and bookmark and classify web resources.

Examples: students, scientists, journalists.


Copy-editor
-----------

This archetype is characterized by group objectives.  The interactions are
primarily with a team of others in a private group, usually < 10 members in
size.

The Copy-editor works collaboratively with others to proof, critique and provide
structured feedback on documents, manuscripts, code and other works.  The
annotations and notes that are made are likely tagged in a way that indicates
the type of suggestion: Spelling Correction, Grammar Correction, Question,
Remove, Insert, Suggested rewording, Disagree, Agree, etc.  Some of these could
be coupled with built in actions, like an “accept” feature to modify the
underlying source text with a Spelling Correction for instance.  We also imagine
a “Resolve” flag that would allow copy-editing suggestions, once acted upon, to
be removed from view in a way that signals back to their creator in case of
disagreement.

The copy-editing archetype underlies the peer-review use case, and would enable
the workflow between authors, editors and reviewers.  Co-authors also of course
use copy-editing in the course of working collaboratively on a document.

Examples: co-authors, editors, reviewers.


Commenter
---------

This archetype is defined primarily by public objectives.  The interactions are
primarily with peers in a public group of undefined, or unlimited size, and take
place over an unbounded time frame (i.e. the long tail of post-publication
commentary).

The commenter wants to engage with their peers to discuss the content of the
source document.  They may want to ask questions, weigh in with a personal or
professional opinion, disagree about public policy, petition their government
for change, crack a joke, or simply commiserate with others about shared
context.  Similar to the use case for Reddit, Hacker News, Twitter and other
social media platforms-- but folded onto the web wherever they are.

This archetype also serves authors that may want to footnote their own works--
but in a way that could also provide the seeds for further discussion with their
readers.

Examples: students, citizens, authors.


Developer
---------

Wants to build other annotation services or integrate their applications with
annotation. Often they work providing solutions for all of the users archetypes
above.

